---

title: Setting up Ranger service
date: 2018-09-24 12:55 UTC
category: Tutorials
thumbnail_image: /images/blog/ranger-400x400.jpg
tags: [ Rubykube, Tutorials ]

---

<p>
We are pleased to announce that Ranger has arrived to Peatio 1.9, Ranger is a  
WebSocket service that handles Peatio's notification system for Trading UI and
more, it's a complete replacement of Slanger that we used until version 1.9.
</p>

<p>
This post's goal is to show how easy it is to setup Ranger and test new Trading
UI using workbench without any modifications.
</p>

<p>
The tutorial is aimed for workbench users, but it can be used for users with
customized manual installations using almost the same instructions.
</p>

## Grab the upgrade

<p>
Change working directory to your workbench repository, update your workbench's
master branch:
</p>

<blockquote class="quotes">
<pre>
$ git checkout master
$ git pull --rebase origin master
</pre>
</blockquote>

<p>
Now we need to update Git submodules which include backend microservices and
Trading UI:
</p>

<blockquote class="quotes">
<pre>$ make update</pre>
</blockquote>

<p>
Great, after that you will see that Git submodules were checked out to latest
changes and now you can start the workbench containers:
</p>

<blockquote class="quotes">
<pre>$ make start</pre>
</blockquote>

<p>
<i>NOTE: it will take some time for building new Docker images.</i>
</p>

<p>
After successful start you can visit your Trading UI using your favorite browser:
</p>

<a target="_blank" href="http://api.wb.local/">http://api.wb.local/</a>

<p>
Authorize in Barong and proceed to take a look at Trading UI with working
notification system:
</p>

<a target="_blank" href="http://api.wb.local/trading/eurusd">http://api.wb.local/trading/eurusd</a>

<p>
Your browser will connect to ws.ranger.wb.local and will read all the
notification that you get from Peatio such as new bids/asks, trades, orders
and global updates of markets.
</p>

## Enable WebSocket Secure Layer

<p>
By default Trading UI connects to Ranger without using SSL, but you can change
this behavior if your exchange supports https connections, open
config/peatio.env file using your favorite editor in workbench's repository and
edit following line:
</p>

<blockquote class="quotes">
<pre>RANGER_HOST=ws://ws.ranger.wb.local</pre>
</blockquote>

to 

<blockquote class="quotes">
<pre>RANGER_HOST=wss://ws.ranger.wb.local</pre>
</blockquote>

<i>replace ws:// with wss://</i>

## Nginx as frontend webserver for Ranger

<p>
You ask, we answer.
</p>

<p>
Yes, you can set any webserver in front of Ranger, you just need to configure it
properly, here is an example of configuration using most famous web server —
Nginx.
</p>

<p>
Add following `server` snippet into your `http` directive in your nginx.conf:
</p>

<blockquote class="quotes">
<pre>
server {
    listen 0.0.0.0:10000;
    location / {
        proxy_pass http://ws.ranger.wb.local;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection "Upgrade";
    }
}</pre></blockquote>

<p>
In given snippet we declare listening server on 10000 port that forwards network
traffic to local backend service — ws.ranger.wb.local.
</p>

<i>NOTE: do not forget to change RANGER_HOST configuration variable to yourdomain.com:10000 to apply changes for Trading UI.
</i>

# Developers docs

<p>
If you want to know what information we send, how we encode it or just take a
look at architecture overview, then you need to visit docs on GitHub:
[WebSocket API docs](https://github.com/rubykube/peatio/blob/master/docs/api/websocket_api.md)
</p>

<p>
<strong>Still have questions or got some troubles with setting up? Get help in our
Telegram channel:</strong>
<a class="telegram" href="https://t.me/peatio" target="blank">
@peatio <i class="fab fa-telegram fa-lg i-head"></i>
</a>
</p>

<i>Images via Shutterstock, Pixabay, and Bitstamp.</i>
